# TextIndex

This is the repository for **[TextIndex]**, a simple syntax for creating indexes
(in the end-of-a-book sense) in Markdown or other text documents. It was created
by [Matt Gemmell], and is made available under the
[GPL-3.0 license].

Feature requests, bug reports, and general discussion are welcomed; you can use
the [issue tracker] here.

## Documentation

Since GitHub doesn't allow the use of custom CSS in hosted README files like
this one, please **read the TextIndex [documentation]** for illustrated
examples, syntax, etc.


## Purpose

While working on my pandoc-based Markdown publishing system: [pandoc-publish], I
became aware that the creation of indexes (in the end-of-a-book sense) from
plain text documents such as Markdown files was a convoluted process, often
involving intermediate markup formats or external files.

My aim was to provide a documented-integrated 80% solution, allowing the
annotation of terms for inclusion in a generated index, including many of the
subtleties and formatting conventions of professionally produced manual indexes.
The result is TextIndex.

Its formatting is primarily of the flush-and-hang (indented) style and tries to
follow many of the principles described in the [indexing guide] of the Chicago
Manual of Style, within the constraints of simplicity.

Note that TextIndex can generate hyperlinked reference-ID-based indexes for
non-paginated formats such as HTML or ePub ebooks. It can also generate
page-number-based indexes for paginated formats such as print and PDF, making it
useful in online and digital contexts too
(even though indexes are less commonly found outside the printed or printable
realm).

See the TextIndex [documentation] for more details.

## Using your ChatGPT account in Junie

If youâ€™re working with this repo inside Junie and want to use your own ChatGPT
(OpenAI) account, see docs/USING-JUNIE-CHATGPT.md for a quick setup guide.

[documentation]: https://mattgemmell.scot/textindex

[GPL-3.0 license]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html

[issue tracker]: https://github.com/mattgemmell/TextIndex/issues

[indexing guide]: https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/book/ed18/part3/ch15/toc.html

[Matt Gemmell]: https://mattgemmell.scot

[pandoc-publish]: https://github.com/mattgemmell/pandoc-publish

[TextIndex]: https://github.com/mattgemmell/TextIndex/
